Uncertain events like fires, natural disasters, accidents or even medical emergencies have become a part of our day-to-day life. The first response to these life threatening events is often given by the Fire Department. As per NFPA’s (National Fire Protection Association) 2017 survey, a US fire department responds to fire every 24 seconds. Apart from fighting wildfires, they help in other situations like building fires, gas investigation, EMS assistance, water removal etc. There were over 36M calls received by the fire department in 2021 for such services. This humongous data is stored in their systems and is growing in size every day. 
To analyze this huge data, we have taken one such fire department into consideration. The San Francisco Fire Department was established in 1866. It provides fire prevention, suppression along with emergency services to an estimated 1.5M people. As per the department reports, it is said to have responded to over 73,000 EMS calls per year. We would use this data to better manage resources and shorten response times by analyzing trends and patterns in emergency service demand. Additionally, the data can be used to monitor the effectiveness of current fire department procedures and identify areas for improvement. The main goal of this project is to improve response times and overall planning to ensure the safety of firefighters as well as to save more lives. To implement this, a cloud-based system will be used which provides appropriate data utilization and other benefits such as dependability, security, scalability etc. We are planning to use the AWS cloud platform to orchestrate the entire data warehousing process and for further analysis and visualization purposes we will be using Tableau.
